Bedrock
 Amazon Nove Reel : Video generator model.
 Bedrock runtime : Run inference through API.
 Converse/InvokeModel difference : invokeModel=need to set json format for response. Converse=No need json settings. 
 : Converse should include Role & Content.
 : Also there is converseStream.
 InvokeAgent/Retrieve/Retrieve&generate : invoke Agent that you created in bedrock.
 Fine-tuning : text-to-image or image-to-embedding can be done too. Should use VPC/privateLink for sensitive data.
  :  Train data should have input and response.  Or, Continued pre-training=no labled(response), just sentences.
 LORA : fine tuning.
RAG : Hierarchical chunking=parent/chile chunking.  
: semantic chunking=let LLM decides chunk.
 : Multimodel=RAG for texts, image, PDF, ... 
 Guardraiss : It can also prevent hallucination, insuracnce eligibility (upload pdf policy), ...
Token level redaction : You can create a list of tokens that you cannot use at all.
 Prompt Management : save you system prompt with user defined variables for later use.
 Bedrock Flow : same as LangGraph.
Prompt engineering : CoT(chaing of thought)=give LLM instruction step by step.
 Access from RAG from different account : use remote-inference connector, and enable IAM.
:Event driven architecture : When uploading files to CRM, DWH, ... if the system goes down, the file will wait until system restored, then upload it.
 Well-Architected GenAI Lens : use Operational Excellence, Security, Reliability, Performance effciency, Cost Optimization, Sustainability.
Bedrock Data Automation(BDA) : Extract data from images/videos and convert it to structured format, using IDP(Intelligent Document Processing)
: Blueprint=output template.

Service 
 OCR : Textract, Comprehend(NLP)
Data Wrangler : Now you can talk to LLM to do transformation.
 : Now supports Image/Text analysis, entity extraction.  Can fine-tune foundation models.
Glue : ETL that can be used in Redshift, Athena, EMR Quicksight for query/analyze. 
: Better for s3 to be divided into partition folders
Glue Studio : GUI for Glue with DAG visual graph. Data source can be slack, sharepoint, salesforce, ...
 : You can add Data Quality check in DAG.
Cloudwatch+Kinesis Firehose : combine these for near real-time Clouldwatch analysis metrics.
Cloudwatch+alarm : alert, threshold 
Cloudwatch+RUM : real user monitoring. used for user monitoring.
Transcribe : speech to text. It can find PII, hate speech, even angry emotions automatically.
Comprehend : Entity extraction including mecial terms, classification by topic, ... 
Cognito : Let you use 3rd party accounts like Google to login to AWS.
Kafka : real time streaming upto 1MB. Kinesis Firehose(near real-time)might be better. Kinesis is upto 1MB.
Grafana : Dashboard for resource in realtime.
OpenSearch : connects to s3, Kinesis, CloudWatch, DynamoDB, store as JSON, then do search including vectors.
 : Index=Table with records of JSON. Inverted Index= insurance=>doc1, doc8 ...
 : Neural Plugin : Allows texts to convert to vectors for sematic search, without using LLM.
s3 vectors : cheaper compared to opensearch.
RDS : can be used for Knowledge Base.  RDS stores vector values.  Note s3 is the original source texts.
Aurora : AWS native.  Better than RDS but more expensive.  
 : pgvector= Can store vectors just like RDS.
DynamoDB : WCU/RCU (Write/Read).  6 items per second each 4.5KB files = 6*5 = 30 WCUs are needed.
 : DynamoDB Accelerator=stored in memory like redis.
: DynamoDB can be used for momory.  Can be integrate with OpenSearch.
cloudwatch : can count tokens, measure time to respond.
AppConfig : allows to change config of your app in real time.
step function : can build react agent.
appsync graphql : use graphql to access AWS service, return in JSON format (graph)
AWS wavelength : 5g
AWS amplify : build web app.
cloudtrail insight : detects unusual event, actions.
AWS xray : debug, integration test.
AWS lake formation : allows on premise or s3 to connect to Athena easily for SQL.
VPC peering : connects between different VPC. site to site VPC is between on premise.
EKS : node=cluster, pod=task in ECS. 
Lex : chatbot.
AWS connect : contact center.
valkey : redis with embedding vectors using ElastiCache or MemoryDB.
code artifactory : repository for pip/npm library.
AWS system manager : allows to manage EC2 and on premise hardware.  hybrid cloud.
AWS datasync : migrate large data.
AWS CloudFront : CDN (content delivery network) cache data at edge for faster latency.
AWS transfer family : transfer data using sft.

Agents
Tools : you may use Lambda function for tools.  Use InvokeAgent function to call the agent.
strands agent : like Agno. 
agent squad : like crewAI.  multi agents router.
agentcore : also has lon term memory.
 : agentcore gateway=turn AWS service (AWS lambda) into like MCP.
 : agentcore identity=it's like cognito for the agent accessing external source(including AWS service)like confluence...
 : agentcore policy= like if statement before accessing tools.
 : agentcore evaluation= evaluate the agent using ground truth data.
MCP : you may run MCP server in AWS lambda, ECS, agentcore, connect with API gateway.
openAPI (formaly swagger) : yaml file used for defining API.  you could use it to define tools in LLM.
amazon Q business : use Gmail, SharePoint, slack... as RAG.
amazon Q app : let you create App using natural language.

Optimization 
ReRank : Bedrock has rerank vectors based on relevance to the query.
Intelligent prompt routing : automatically choose less expensive model.
caching : vector, prompt, edge caching.
latency optimization : bedrock has this option built-in.
Evaluate agent : bedrock evaluation, cloudwatch evidently.
exponential backoff : limit API access when API goes down.
connection pooling : keep API connection.  No authentication every API access.
cross region inference : use multiple AZ.

sagemaker
deployment : blue green, canary, linear deployment.
shadow test : run inference on new and old model both.
multi-model endpoint: having multiple models container in one endpoint.
DJL : deep java library.  deep learning for java.
Ground truth : label training data by humans for evaluating model performance.
sagemaker clarify : detects model bias.
lineage tracking : keep track of ML pipeline history like GitHub.
sagemaker neo : install your model in edge device.
sagemaker unified studio : sagemaker, bedrock, q, quicksight, all in one.
mlflow : integrated with sagemaker studio, model registr, all in one.

Evaluation 
model scoring : score for lllm.
 : Rogue = score based on how much tokens are matched with true answer.
 : Bleu= score using machine translation.
Bert : score based on semantic similarity.
Augmented AI : Either randomly or low confident prediction, for human evaluation.
AI governance responsible : use bedrock evaluation, sagemaker clarify, augmented AI, sagemaker model monitor, 

Governance 
masking : Glue databrew, redshift, 
IAM identity center : single sign on, SSO for logging into aws, Salesforce, ...
AWS control tower : collection of AWS accounts environment. 
 : preventive guardrail=regional detection for users.
 : detective guardrail=resource detection for users.
KMS key : symmetric key=free. assymetric key=user decrypt file.
Macie : protect your sensitive data like PII using machine learning.
WAF : can only be used for API gateway, cognito, auto balancer, graphQL, CloudFront , 
ACL : firewall for subnets.
VPC endpoint(for AWS service), NAT gateway( for internet): use these if using private subnets.
security group : firewall in EC2 instance. Allow rule only.
VPC flow log : check network issues.

Test
 : use Rest API for streaming response.
 : API gateway can detect incoming token number, and block.
 : routing different models can be done by API gateway.
 : create separate index for each users using opensearch.
 : API gateway can limit access spike and force JSON schema.
 : routing to different models, you should use lambda or bedrock routing, not route 53.
 : throughput means API access per unit time.
 : use prompt management to make output JSON.
 : use guardrail to make LLM behave in certain tone and persona.
 : CloudFront is not ideal for cross regions.
 : Route 53 is for routing different regions based on fail over and latency.
 : note guardrail cannot run scheduled jobs. 
 : bedrock knowledge base allows automatic embedding.


















xxxxxxxx

